# Hentaigana Digital Humanities Project Review
###### By: Megan

### Introduction
 <p> Language is constantly changing throughout time. This change can be seen in spoken words, such as the use of Shakespearean language to today’s modern language. Another change can be seen in writing in which there are complete overhauls of a language’s writing system. One example of this is the Japanese writing system. Today, the Japanese language consists of four different character sets, or alphabets, if you will: kanji, hiragana, katakana, and romaji. What we will be focusing on is hiragana. Hiragana is based on the Japanese syllables and contains 46 base characters. This means that, instead of having a single character convey a _word_, it will, usually, only communicate a sound. For example, the word “hiragana” would be written as “_hi_” (ひ) “_ra_” (ら) “_ga_” (が) “_na_” (な). This, however, was not always the case. Instead, <q>individual syllables were written using a variety of hiragana, each based on the cursive form of a different kanji… these traditional kana came to be known as hentaigana.</q> </p>

### Concept and Content of the App
 <p> The Hentaigana App was created for the purpose of giving people an easier method of studying hentaigana, rather than stress over multiple paper charts and pages. The app <q>was developed as a collaboration between UCLA and Waseda University as a project of the Tadashi Yanai Initiative for Globalizing Japanese Humanities.</q> The creators assert that, with the correct app, learning hentaigana is not difficult at all, and is, in fact, fun and addictive. They use a multitude of different and reliable sources which they briefly mention on [their website](http://alcvps.cdh.ucla.edu/support/#about) and then go more in depth about within the app. Sources given are _Genji monogatari_, _Ise monogatari_, and _Gengaishō_, to name a few, and each one is used effectively to help the user learn hentaigana. Overall, the creators have established a definitive goal, have efficiently used existing data, and have made clear connections to other projects. 

### Design and Technique of the App
 <p> The app has a minimalistic type of design that allows the user to be rid of any distractions they might have; however, the app’s User Interface (UI) seems _too_ basic to the point that it might actually cause confusion for the user and ultimately be detrimental. Immediately upon launching the app, a fairly rudimentary, yet easy to understand, tutorial pops up and teaches the user how to use the flashcard system. While this is helpful, the tutorial does not fully encompass all that the app has to offer, only detailing one out of the three sections that the user can access. The other two sections include a practice mode and an interactive dictionary. In addition to these, there is an “Other” tab that bundles the Settings, a Reset function, an Extras tab, Sources, and Credits. Within the settings, the user has the option to change the number of kana displayed on the screen. Something that could be helpful to add in this tab is an option to change the background as the chosen backgrounds occasionally make it difficult to read the kana that is displayed. Another option could be the addition of a colorblind mode. The creators’ design of the app is clearly intentional and is very much trying to keep a certain aesthetic, which makes sense for the argument. I think the use of an app as a medium is extremely helpful and gets rid of the hassle of sifting through papers on a desk; however, it also limits the audience to only those that have smartphones. It would be helpful to also have an online version of the app so that people with a computer can also utilize this tool. 

### Collaboration and Documentation of the App
 <p> As stated above, the Hentaigana App was developed as a collaboration between two different universities, UCLA and the Waseda University. The two universities clearly showed their understanding of the project and what they wished to accomplish. Everything was also well-documented, as they scanned each and every hentaigana from the Waseda library. The creators also collaborated with outside sources, such as the master calligrapher Watanabe Daigo. Their credits section also lists everyone that contributed to the project, which includes over 25 people from different backgrounds, ranging from calligraphists to computer programmers. In addition to this, the creators have made an email: thehentaiganaapp@gmail.com, that people can contact them at if they have any questions and comments about the app; this can include tips and suggestions that the creators might take into account. Another way to contact them would be to review the app on the Apple store or Play Store. 

### Conclusion
 <p> The Hentaigana App is a strong Digital Humanities project that allows those who are interested to learn hentaigana. The goal of the app is clear and concise, and the design, while in need of some tweaks, has a good basis to work with. As seen, the app also had a multitude of developers working together on it and was fully documented. The app itself cannot be repurposed or redistributed by other people, but the knowledge within the app certainly can be. The Hentaigana App is absolutely a successful DH project that meets all of the criteria the class set to the best of its ability. </p>
